我一定要破掉它 I'll break it up
DiDi，不可以把孩子打掉 Di Di do you want to get rid of the body?
她一定要帮我 She must help me out
算命的说我没孩子送终的 The astrologer said l can't have children
如果我有一个孩子 f I can get a body
那不就是破了他的话，也不是注定 Which means l can break thefate
DiDi，不可以打掉这孩子的 Di Di keep the child
阿汉，不要太伤心啦 Don't be sad.
阿婆知道你很孝顺 Grandma knowyou'rea good kid
阿汉，到时候了 Time is up Han
burn somethingforgrandma
烧东西给阿婆吧 Burn somethingforgrandma
快叫救护车 Call theambulance.
都不晓得怎么会这样的 don't knowhowdid all this happened?
Don't you believe me now?
Orwill you heIp me?
如果我们今生有个孩子 We can break ourfate
就可以打破前生的安排 ifwecan have a baby
你不可以打掉那个孩子，你知不知道 Keepthe body understand?
你神经病的，没有呀，医生验错了 You arecrazy.
The doctorhas made a mistake I wasn't pregnant
That's not true That's not true
今次回来的时间 The date of your trtuen this time
十一月二十九日 29th of November
即表演的那天 The day of the fashion show
上次回来是凶杀案的那天 That Iasttime you returned was on the day of the murder
有一件事一定要向你讲清楚的 three's something l must taIk to you
是关符我们的生命的 tconcerns about ourlife
WhaIt'swrong with you?
你有没看到呀，幻像呀 Have you seen it.
Haveyou seen it.
没有呀 What iIIusion?
l don't see it
整天的想着那些木偶 The wooden puppets
你快要神经病了 are driving you crazy
反正 You were my wife during our past life
你前辈子对我前辈子不起 You did something bad to me in ourpast Iife
前生前生，你怎么也信那些三八事呢 Past life how come you wouId beIieve in such nonsense
DiDi，我跟你，跟阿汉是一家人呐 Di Di you.
meand Han were just one family
你跟那白痴才是一家人呐 Yu were the family member of the crazy family
小林，我真是弄不明白 don't understand it Lin
从国外回来 You were educated in thewest
How come you'd believe n this superstitious nonsense?
DiDi，你听我讲呀 Listen to me Di Di
DiDi，你信我吧，我不会害你的 Trust me.
l won't hurt you Di Di
如果你不帮我 We will becondemned
我们会像前辈子那样死法的 Like in the past life needs help
你让我再跟他谈谈 Let me taIkto him
可能他真的有事要我帮他 may be he really nees help
你走开一点吧 You betterleave us aIone
没事的，你放心吧 Don'tworry.
it will bealright
我查到你跟我跟阿汉 都同一天出世的 I find thatyou.
Han and me were all born on the sameday
也就是26年前 戏班发生凶案的那晚上 The night that the murder happened in the puppetgroup
我幻像里见到 The pregnantwoman
死了的夫妇，大肚子的女人就是你 I've seen in the iIIusion is you
那丈夫是我呀，阿汉是我们的儿子 The husband is me and Han isthe son
我们一定要合作，你一定要帮我DiDi We msut be cooperated and you must help me
我们可以改变命运的 Dl Di we can change our fate
我不可以这样错下去，让命运摆布的 can't just Iet the fate handles my Iife
你胡说八道，你快要神经病了 You are going crazy
你不要走呀 Don't go away
我全看到啦，DiDi I've seen the whoIe thing Di D
我看到你的情夫 saw your Iover
我只是没看到他的样子 onIy l couId see hisface
命运是注定的，轮不到你安排的 Your Iife is controIIed by the fate
你好 Howare you?
在做玄光术，请阿婆上来 Doing Yuen Kong Shu inviting grandma up
问问她 Ask her
阿汉为什么无端端的给烧死了 why did Han got burn to death?
同时，为什么她的那些木偶 And why her puppets
ike to hit you?
谢谢你 Thank you
Have you seen it?
让我开 Let me
不要动，不要动 How come there is so much bIood?
Don't move
快拿着 hoId this
Didn't tell you not to get rid of the body?
我现在知道他就是你的情夫 Now l know he is your secret Iover
不要，不要呀 Don't don't
It's really you
炼狱 （PrettySlasher译）
Cropsy必须得到教训
-还记得他是怎么对你的吧, Snoop?
还有他把Jamie揍得找不到北的时候
Billy说Cropsy这么多年来一直怕这些鬼东西
-Jamie, 你和我们一起吗?
好的, Billy, 让我们看看你拿来的东西
好的, Kent到哪去了?
Matches, matches!
干得好, Eddy.
Tiger,回来, 别找了 我们还有球
快点, Tiger，把球找来
做得好, Tiger!
Karen, Todd和我都约会很长时间了
你别指望那和Eddy约会一样 你只是和他见面
Sophie, 别和她掺和
我真的很喜欢Eddy
哦, Tiger, 别闹了
Karen, 假如你真的觉得和Eddy一起不好
-嘿, Sally.
嘿, Dave昨晚出现了么
Michelle, 是你吗?
醒醒, Tiger，要迟到了，快点
Sophie, 起床
Michelle,是你么?
Sally, Sally, 怎么了?
Alfred, 他一直站那儿偷看我洗澡
Alfred一直在偷窥女生洗澡
-Karen, 送Sally回床上去
你想怎么解释, Alfred?
-够了 Eddy, 带他去娱乐室
他是个怪胎, Todd.
好了, Alfred.
还有管理员以及Glazer?
Glazer会怎么想?
听着, 不仅仅是Glazer 是所有人
我总算看清楚了 那个Alfred就是个怪胎
他说自己只是想吓唬你 来报复Glazer.
他想报复Glazer, 所以就来把Sally吓个半死?
没错, Sally 想想单独和Alfred度过三个夜晚的感觉吧
嘿，你是想给Glazer吧, Sally?
胡说什么, Marnie
-想想和Glazer做的感觉吧
也许哪天我会和Alfred试试
为什么把话题都扯到Glazer身上?
- 哦,没什么Todd,没事
什么时候轮到你行侠仗义了, Glazer?
嘿, 怎么了, Todd?
哦, Alfred，你必须练习游泳，好么?
别懦弱了，只要看着Fish就行了
-Dave, Dave, 看
Esther Williams, 看好了
跟我一起, Alfred, 好吗?
嘿, Sally，我过来找你, 宝贝
-嘿, 要我帮你教训Glazer吗?
Woodstock?
哦,得了，Woodstock不可能打到那么远的地方
-你带着那把枪吗, Woody?
Alfred，这将是你生命中最完美的一刻
Glazer一定会气疯的，这该死的
Woodstock,我想你成功了
Woodstock,你别想活了 听见了吗?
对不起啦, Glazer.
Dave,你是不是拿了我的"好色客"?
你要"好色客"做什么，Woodstock?
我们让你恶心是么, Glazer?
-嗨, Sally.
-Glazer, 冷静点儿
-嘿, Glazer.
也许他想要你的身体, Glazer
天哪，Woodstock 你该不会信那种破东西吧?
-Woodstock?
-Todd, 你差点吓死我了
对不起吓着你了，Glazer和Fish说 你病的不轻，我很担心
肯定是个玩笑 我有点受够了Glazer的幽默感了
嘿, Woodstock,掌好舵
开直点, Glazer.
等Glazer变"直"的时候, Sally 你最好赶紧逃
-Michelle, 管好你的营员们
他的名字叫Cropsy
所有人都不喜欢Cropsy.
因为Cropsy会把他们按到墙上
这个Cropsy是个真正的虐待狂
有一次, Cropsy跟上了一个来自布鲁克林的男孩
那会把Cropsy吓的屁滚尿流
Cropsy被火烧着了，在房间里痛苦的嚎叫
哦, 你是个混球, Eddy
Eddy, 那儿真有个叫Cropsy的疯子吗
-我真的喜欢你, Eddy.
Karen, 别想这些了, 行么?
-好了, Eddy, 醒醒
那么她在哪, Eddy?
别吠了, Eddy.
你知道吗, Karen告诉我你有时令她很惶恐
嘿, Michelle
哦,是的, Dave把它们卖给印第安人了
Glazer, 为什么不放了他?
是的, 别捣乱了, Glazer.
Michelle,看看周围吧
Karen 也没有回到营地
我还是不明白Todd为什么要我们找做木筏的材料
嘿, Dave 要知道,你向来能干
过来，Jane，我们去找木头
...我怎么了, Sally 我是说, 该死的,我一直很友好
-嘿, Eddy把那边的绳子给我
Eddy, 帮她拿 把它绑上去,好吗?
不, Glazer!
这才是好女孩,Sally
好的,大伙，听好了，Eddy会负责的
Eddy, 别乱开 要立马回营地,明白了吗?
给我闭嘴, Woodstock!
Karen真的只是离开了,对么?
嘿, 听着, 就像Michelle说的 她只是有点不安, 好吗?
Eddy,壮小伙，快点儿
-快划, Eddy.
-Eddy, Eddy!
-Woody, 准备抓住它
轻点儿, Glazer
对不起, Sally.
Todd, Todd.
-别闹了, Alfred
-我看见他了，他杀了Glazer.
Alfred,假如这又是个玩笑 我不想...
-Dave, 留在这儿, 我过去
嘿, Dave, 你觉得他们到底在干吗?
Alfred 在吗?
Michelle, 我好累 我们连桨都没有
Jeff, 快艇在哪?
哦, 得了,这是Todd教你的玩笑?
这是个小马达, Michelle.
你怎么说, Todd?
Alfred, 闪开
tpring 校对:
内阁开会 What is it today, sir?
The Ministry.
一上午讨论公共医疗卫生的事 All morning on Health service administration.
啊 收音机里刚刚还在播 A chap just now on the radio
说公共医疗 教育和卫生的问题 said the trouble with health,education and transport
在于政府官员都去私立医院 is that people in Governmentgo to private hospitals
把孩子送去私立学校 好好 and send their kidsto private schools.
Comedy programme, was it?
上班都坐公家车 And go to workin chauffeur
-driven cars.
Think there's something in it, sir?
如果您和汉弗莱爵士搭公交上班 If you and Sir Humphreywent to work on a number 27...
不切实际 Quite impracticable!
我们工作时间够长了 We work long enough hours as it is,
哪有空等公交 without having to wait at bus stops.
你们需要更有效率的公交 可不是 You'd need more efficient buses.
Certainly would.
对 广播也是这么说的 Yes, that's what he was saying.
Same with the Health Service.
You a member of BUPA, sir?
现在在播什么 罗伊? "昨日议会" 先生 Anything on the radio, Roy?"Yesterday in Parliament".
Don't bother...
兰弗先生 伯明翰的反对党成员 Mr Lanford,opposition member for Birmingham,
询问行政事务大臣吉姆・哈克 asked the AdministrativeAffairs Minister, James Hacker,
公共医疗行政减员一事 about reducing administratorsin the Health Service.
是的 我们已经削减了11.3% We have already achieveda reduction of 11.3 %
书记和管理人员 in administrative staff
经济效益正在稳步提高 and are actively pursuingfurther economies.
大臣能否解释一下您对下院的保证 Would you explainhow his assurance to the House
squares with this minutefrom his own department?
于是 兰弗先生戏剧化地拿出一张纸 Then Mr Lanford dramaticallyproduced a paper.
原文:"如果将行政人员重新分类" I quote,"If admin staff were reclassified
"改为技术头衔" from administrativeto technical...
"单位由财政年转为公历年" and the comparison changedfrom the financial to calendar year,
"统计数字就会减少11.3%" then the figures will showa fall of 11.3 %".
Would the Minister care to commenton this shabby deception?
上套了 先生 Bit of a googly, sir.
我对你手里那张纸一无所知 I have no knowledge of the documentyou're brandishing.
我愿意向大臣提供文件 I shall givethe file reference to the Minister
来交换一次完全独立的调查 in exchange for an assuranceof a full independent enquiry.
我保证发起调查 I will give that assurance.
下院宣读了苏格兰渔业法案 The Houseread the Scottish Fisheries'Bill...
不好办啊 "独立调查" That's a bit rough, innit?"A full independent enquiry"!
您被套进去了 我觉得我逃脱了 You were dropped in it there.
I think I got away with it.
Lucky they didn't ask youabout that new hospital, sir.
完工了15个月 还没有病人 They finished it 15 months ago,and it's still got no patients.
一定是卫生部没钱请员工 The DHSS can't afford to staff it.
有员工 500名行政人员 It's got staff, 500 administrators.
Just no patients.
Who told you?
我朋友查理 卫生部长的司机 My mate Charlie,a driver for the Health Secretary.
汉弗莱 我太震惊了 我也是 大臣 I'm appalled!
玩忽职守 太不像话 The incompetence of it!
就是 真不知您中了什么邪 I can't think what came over you.
你说什么 I beg your pardon!
汉弗莱 我不是说这个 A full independent enquiry.
Humphrey, that's not what I meant.
您说玩忽职守 我是说你 汉弗莱 But you mentioned incompetence.
Yours, Humphrey, yours!
你害我套进去的 Mine?
You dropped me into it?
我们不能总面面俱到 We can't foresee a small omissionfrom the brief,
but a full enquiry?
我也不想被调查 但如果你落水了 有绳子就抓 I don'twant an enquiry, but ifyou're drowning and thrown a rope...
这不是绳子 这是绞索 That wasn't a rope, it was a noose!
职责要求您站在部里的立场上 You should've stood upfor the department!
不 汉弗莱 我为昨天的质询做了万全准备 I prepared thoroughlyfor yesterday's Question Time,
偏不知道你在玩弄数据 but nowhere was the suggestionyou'd juggled the figures
让我误导下院 so I'd mislead the House.
大臣 您吩咐减少行政人员数目 我们就减少数目 You wanted the figures reduced?
So we reduced the figures!
对 但没减少行政人员 当然没有 Yes, but not the administrators.
这不是我的本意 大臣 我们可没有心灵感应 That's not what I meant.
Minister, one isn't a mind
您说减数目 我们就减数目 还有一件事 You said reduce them, so we did.
And another thing:
How did this get out?
Another leak?
这哪是行政部 简直是漏锅 This isn't a department,it's a colander!
什么都告诉后座议员 How can we govern responsibly,
if back benchers get all the facts?
调查给了我们缓冲时间 那就是定时炸弹 The enquiry gives us some time.
So does a time
Is there a disposal squad?
Disposal squad?
Couldn't we get the independentenquiry to exonerate us?
没有没有 Do you mean rig it?
大臣 Minister!
这取决于主席是谁 It depends on who the chairman is.
He absolutely has to be sound.
得有觉悟 一点就通 He will knowwhat is required.
He will perceive the implications.
有洞察力 对我们抱同情 He will have a sympathetic insightinto the problems.
总而言之 他得可靠 In short, he will be "sound".
不 当然不是 No, of course not!
他得自己心胸宽大 He will be a manof broad understanding.
How about...
a retired politician?
正直得无懈可击 And unimpeachable integrity.
对 我懂你的意思 Yes, I see what you mean.
哦 开玩笑 A businessman?
Oh, really!
不 不 不 An academic?
我想 退休公务员也许可以 Who've you got in mind?
Perhaps a retired civil servant.
好主意 汉弗莱 莫里斯・威廉爵士 Good thinking, Humphrey.
Sir Maurice Williams.
Might not he be too independent?
Well, he's hoping for a peerage.
Not through this?
不 可是出对了结论能攒工分 No, but the right findingwill earn him Brownie points!
攒够了换徽章嘛 Brownie points?
They all add up towards the badge!
好吧 就找莫里斯爵士 谢谢您 大臣 Well, Sir Maurice it is.
Thank you, Minister.
谢谢 大队长 Thank you...
Brown Owl.
早安 伯纳 Good morning, Bernard.
两件事 首先是古巴难民 又来了 Two points, the Cuban refugees.
Not that again?
关于我们拒绝出台更多优惠政策 It's about our refusalto do any more for them.
不怪我 怪财政部 谁能对抗财政部 没错 It's not my fault, it's the Treasury.
You can't beat the Treasury!
我不表态 I shall say nothing.
再公开丢一次脸 One more public humiliation
我自己都成政治难民了 and I'llbecome a political refugee myself.
您问伦敦北郊那间空壳医院 And the other point?
The alleged empty hospital.
对对 我提醒过您 司机消息网并不完全可靠 As I warned you, the driver's networkis not wholly reliable.
罗伊说错了 谢天谢地 Roy's wrong.
Thank heavens forthat!
私人秘书消息网 How did you find out?
The private secretaries' network.
实际上医院里行政人员只有342名 In fact, there are only 342administrative staff at the hospital.
其他170人是门房 清洁工 洗衣工和厨子之类 The other 170 are porters, cleaners,laundry workers, cooks, etc.
And medical staff?
那倒没有 Oh, none of them.
We are talkingabout St Edward's Hospital?
是 刚落成15个月 人员齐备 Yes.
It's brand
-new and fully
不幸赶上政府削减预算 Unfortunately, there were cutbacks,
所以没钱开展医疗了 so there was no moneyfor medical services.
A hospital with over 500 non
-medicalstaff and no patients?
There's one patient.
副主管绊在脚手架上 摔断了腿 The deputy administrator fell overscaffolding and broke his leg.
老天爷 Good God!
Thank heavens I wasn't askedabout this!
Why hasn't it got out?
实际上 它被打扮成工地 It's been contrivedto look like a building site,
至今没人发现它开业了 and so far no one's realisedit's operational!
像脚手架 水泥车 正常工程用品 You know, scaffolding, skips,the normal thing?
我得赶在反对党前面去看看 Normal?
I'd better look at itbefore the opposition does.
对 很奇怪媒体还没发现 Yes, it's surprisingthe press haven't found out.
伯纳 幸好大多数记者素质底下 Fortunately, most journalistsare so incompetent,
大概连今天星期三都不知道 they wouldn't knowtoday is Wednesday.
今天是星期四 大臣 It's actually Thursday, Minister.
就坐那边 Let's sit down there.
Why is your Minister interestedin this hospital?
他很担心那里没病人 He's greatly concernedthat it has no patients.
林子大了 就是 It takes all sorts.
晚上好 晚上好 Evening.
就是 How can there be patientswhen it has no nursing staff?
谢谢 太好了 Thank you.
汉弗莱爵士 谢谢 Sir Humphrey?
卫生部认为开业需要时间 We've found at the DHSSthat it takes time to get things going.
首先得安排好 First of all, you have to sort out
日常运转 the smooth running of the hospital.
收治病人可不能改善现状 Having patients aroundwould be no help at all.
他们只会碍事 They'd just be in the way.
告诉他现在是磨合期 对 磨合期 Tell him this is the run
-in period.
Yes, yes, the run
你看 How long is the run
-in periodgoing to last?
我们大臣承诺发起独立调查 My Minister's agreedto an independent enquiry.
You knowwhat I think about that.
Yes, I know, but...
我们会给圣爱医院找些病人 We are going to getsome patients in to St Edward's...
eventually?
Aren't we?
有可能 It's possible.
确实有这个意向 Certainly our present intention.
一两年之内 In a year or two.
等财政状况改善点 Probably...
when the financialsituation has eased up a bit.
不 Not till then?
How can I open 40 new wardswhen I'm closing everywhere else?
财政部和内阁都会反对 我们大臣可能要关闭它 Treasury wouldn't wear it.
My Minister may want to shut the place.
Impossible!
What about the unions?
这倒是 Are the unions active there yet?
Remember that fire brand agitatorat Southwark Hospital?
比利・弗雷泽 讨厌鬼 可能有用 Billy Fraser, odious man.
Could be useful.
该放他出马了 Time he was moved on.
卫生部门正在官僚之路上高歌猛进 The Health Service is an advancedcase of galloping bureaucracy!
怎能说高歌猛进 Oh, certainly not galloping!
最多算稳步前进 A gentle canterat the most.
Instances flood into this office.
From whom, Minister?
议员 选民 医生 护士 公众 MPs, constituents,doctors, nurses, the public.
刁民 Trouble makers!
他们最不安分 The public?
They're the worst.
听听这个 Listen to this.
基于目前状况" "Stethoscope requisition:
Due to current situation,
"无法按需核发听诊器" it is not possible to issuethe extra stethoscopes applied for.
"但可以为现有听诊器" We can, however,supply longertubes
"配备更长的胶管" for your existing stethoscopes".
Doesn't that strike you as odd?
不 不 Lf they have long tubes...
他们不要长胶管 要听诊器 No, not longer stethoscopes,MORE stethoscopes.
如果胶管够长 If they had really long tubes,
医生可以坐在原地 听遍所有病人 the doctor could stand in one placeand listen to all the chests.
这个呢? "护士制服" What about nurses' uniforms?
"显然目前标准制服" "Apparently the latestconsignment of nurses' coats
"均以半透明材料制作" is made of a see
-through material;
nurses issued with these
"护士请求上报制服监督委员会" are requested to reportto the Directorof Uniform Surveillance,
"评估问题严重程度" who will assessthe extent of the problem".
Nice work if you can get it.
Humphrey, I'm serious!
"请注意 柔软型卫生纸专供病人而非职工" "Please note that the soft toiletrolls are for patients not staff.
"似乎近来职工在用柔软型卫生纸" It would appear that staff havebeen using the soft toilet rolls
"作此种或彼种用途" for one reason or another".
"圣史蒂芬太平间圣诞期间将关闭" "St Stephen's Mortuarywill be closed over Christmas.
"节日期间 请医护人员" During the holiday,medical staff are to cooperate
"减轻太平间负担" in keeping pressureoff this department".
非常合理 情有可原 A very civil and reasonable request.
You think the rest of the yeardoctors work hard to keep it busy?
大臣 这些都是特例 These are a few isolated examples.
大体上 医疗部门已达到政府最高效率 The Health Service is as efficientas the Government allows it.
胡说 汉弗莱 看数字就知道 Nonsense!
The figures speak for themselves.
10年来 医疗部门行政人员增加了4万名 In ten years, the number ofadministrators has risen by 40,000.
病床减少了6万张 The number of hospital bedshas fallen by 60,000.
医疗年度支出增加了1500万 净增长 The annual cost of the HealthService has gone up by ?
5 billion!
工业增长也有这个速度就好了 If only British industrycould match this growth record.
你觉得多拨款少治病人 You think spendingmore money on fewer patients
余钱拿来雇行政人员 so we can employmore administrators
is a good way of spendingthe taxpayer's money?
汉弗莱 拨款是为了把病人治好 要专款专用 This money is solelyto make sick people better.
不不 大臣 No, no, no, Minister.
是为了我们大家好 It is to make everybody better.
更好体现大家的关注与仁爱之心 Better for showing the extentof their care and compassion.
您看 当款项集中投入医疗或社会服务 You see, when money is allocatedto the Health orSocial Services,
升华了 Parliament and the countryfeel...
净化了 赎罪了 这是种牺牲 Purified.
It is a sacrifice.
花言巧语 Dreadful claptrap!
牺牲仪式之后 After the sacrifice is made,
没人会问祭品去了哪里 nobody questionswhat happened to the offering.
汉弗莱 你错了 公众确实反对滥用 The public does careif it's misspent.
恕我直言 他们反对公开滥用 They care it's not seento be misspent.
才不是呢 看看那桩精神病院丑闻 That's not true.
Look at the uproarover mental hospital scandals.
正是如此 大臣 My point exactly.
顺顺当当浪费了多少年 几十年 Those abuses had been going onhappily for years.
没人关心钱花到哪去了 Nobody was concernedwhat was being done with their money.
他们只恨知道了真相 What outraged themwas being told.
汉弗莱 多世故的烟幕弹 A cynical smokescreen!
你我都同意 Are we or are we not agreed
there's no pointin a hospital run solelyforthe staff?
我不会这么说 我会 That's not how I would express it.
It's how I would.
确实 Indeed.
当然 总的来说 How would you express it?
At the end of the day,
治病救人是医院的职能之一 one of a hospital's prime functionsis patient care.
没有钱请医护人员 Until we have the moneyfor nursing and medical staff,
这一职能18个月内不能履行 it's a function we can't pursue.
In 18 months orso...
届时可以开些病房 18 months?
We can open some wards.
不行 汉弗莱 必须现在病房全开 No, it's got to be now.
好吧 那就组成部门联席委员会 I suppose we could forman inter
-departmental committee
考察提早收治病人 to examine the feasibilityof monitoring a proposal
这一提案的可行性 for admitting patients earlier.
不久 How long would that take to report?
大概18个月 How long?
About 18 months.
我提议裁掉所有人员 I suggestwe get ridof all the staff there
省下钱开放其他医院闲置病房 大臣 and use the money to openclosed wards in other hospitals.
When we can afford it, we openSt Edward's with medical staff.
大臣 如此您把开业时间推后了好几年 Do that and you'll delaythe opening for patients for years.
You talk as if the staffhave nothing to do!
有什么事 拜托 大臣 What do they do?
Really, Minister!
各部门都非常繁忙 There's a large numberof extremely busy departments.
首先 有应急科预防火灾 罢工 空袭 Firstly, the Contingency Departmentforfires, strikes, air raids,
核战争 瘟疫 食物或饮水污染 nuclearwar, epidemics,food or water poisoning.
一旦险情发生 医院是救治中心 In such a crisis, the hospitalis a key centre for survival.
其次 数据研究科 Then, the Data and ResearchDepartment,
总结分析 conducting a full
辖区内各项数据 demographicsurvey of the catchment area.
必须预计未来孕妇生产率 We have to anticipate the futurerequirements for maternity,
老龄率 幼儿率和男女比率 geriatrics, paediatricsand the male/female balance.
第三当然是财务科 Thirdly, there'sFinance projected accounts,
平衡账面与现金周转 balance sheetsand cash
-flow budgets.
还有采购科 Then, the Purchasing Department
采购医疗物资 for purchasing medical equipment,
核查估价 管理分类报价单 examining estimates, lookingat price lists and catalogues...
Purchasing what?
什么都有 大臣 Everything, Minister.
Everything from brain scannersto Brasso!
May I continue?
简短些说 Be briefer.
我尽量 大臣 不过您得理解 Would that I could, Minister,but you need to understand.
第五 技术科 评估设备的 Fifth, the Technical Departmentfor evaluations.
第六 土建科 主管第三期工程 Sixth, the Building Departmentdealing with Phase 3 plans,
成本及施工 确保1994年完工 costing and so forth for the finalphase to be completed by 1994.
然后还有维修 清洁 炊事科 Then, there's Maintenance,Cleaning and Catering,
有人管理休假 健康保险 工资 Personnel in charge of leave,National Health Insurance, salaries,
以及福利人员照顾这500名员工 as well as staff welfare officersto look after the 500 employees.
最后 主管部门 主管部门 And finally, Administration.
Administrators!
增加行政人员来管行政人员 More administrators administratingother administrators!
这工作至关重要 大臣 This is important work, Minister.
打字小组 文具 办工家具及设备 The typing pool, stationery,office furniture and equipment.
Liaison between departments.
Are you being serious ornot?
怎么讲 汉弗莱 没有病人啊 What do you mean?
There are NO patients!
That is what a hospital's for.
悬壶济世 治病救人 Ill people!
Healing the sick!
可是大臣 这些基本工作和病人不相干 But all these vital tasks mustbe done with or without patients.
How else can I express it?
Would you sack the armybecause there's no war?
两码事 医院必须出效益 Completely different!
A hospital must produce results.
大臣 效益不看结果 得看行动 现在医院很景气 We don't measure our successby results but by activity.
这500人已经操劳过度了 Those 500 peopleare seriously overworked.
预计编制有650人 The full establishmentshould be 650.
May I show you the paperwork?
不 汉弗莱 我看够了 全部裁掉 No, Humphrey.
Enough is enough.
Sack them!
办不到 大臣 Out of the question, Minister.
没有行政人员 医院永不能开业 We need administratorsor the hospital will never open.
裁掉后勤工人 也不行 工会不同意 Sack the ancillary staff.
The unions won'twear it.
各裁一半 省下钱来请医生护士 Sack half and use the moneyto get doctors and nurses,
开几个病房 and open some wards!
No, Humphrey, that's my lastword.
My lastword!
你可以走了 You may go!
很好 大臣 我去和医疗工会协商 Very well, Minister.
I shall have a word with the unions.
但我不抱希望 快走 But I don't hold out much hope.
就这些 感谢各位到会 That seems to be everything.
Thank you forcoming.
谢谢大家 Thank you very much.
讨论的不错 谢谢 Very good meeting.
Yes very good.
得尽快 Got time fora drink?
A quick one.
别客气 The usual?
Make yourself at home.
What are we going to doabout St Edward's?
St Edward's Hospital?
我们不占理 就照你的来 Not much of a case.
Can't fight you on it.
我们承认不能在空壳医院里养后勤人员 We realise you can't keep ancillarystaff on in an empty hospital.
Isn't that a bit defeatist?
Surely, you can stick up forthem?
You want us to...
可不是你们一方的事 It's not just your workers, you know?
那342名公务员得有人可管理 The 342 civil servants must havesome workers to administer.
时世艰难啊 Civil servants are never laid off.
We live in disturbing times.
You mean, if we take industrialaction, you'll support us?
亲爱的布赖恩 我是常任秘书 My dear Brian,I am the Permanent Secretary.
我的职责是维持政府运转 My task is to turnthe wheels of government.
我怎么能支持罢工呢 I couldn't possibly countenanceany such action.
如果各位工友 But...
if there wereeffective opposition
强烈施压 from the ancillary workers,
公务员也会支持 the civil servantswould have to stay.
And the Minister?
大臣自己连蓝领白领都分不清 The Ministerdoesn't knowhis ACAS from his NALGO.
我没什么优势 你看 I haven't got much of a case.
医院空了15个月 病房一年内开不了 Hospital empty for 15 months,wards not open for another year.
振作点 Pull yourself together.
想想会员们的妻儿老小 Think of yourmembers' wives and children.
鹦鹉 Their...
会员都认命了 They're resigned to it by now.
Is Billy Fraser resigned to it?
可他还在萨瑟医院 Yes...
but he's overat Southwark.
Do you want to bet?
那就不一样了 工人们就缺人撑腰壮胆 Well, that's a different matter,with some real shop
-floor militancy.
团结一心 众志成城 You see?
Solidarity.
谢谢你的酒 谢谢你 阶级兄弟 Thanks for the drink.
Thank you, Brother.
请替我问候各位战友 Please give my kind regardsto our fraternal comrades.
"任你东南西北风 我们就不动" We shall not,we shall not be moved!
大臣 这位是行政总管罗杰夫人 Minister, this is Mrs Rogers,the chief administrator.
您好您好 比利・弗雷泽 工会主席 Nice to meet you.
Billy Fraser, committee chairman.
幸会幸会 我看不见得 Hownice to meet you.
I wouldn't be too sure.
这是F病区 This is 'F' ward.
这是J手术室 And this is 'J' theatre.
加上放射治疗仪和监护仪 Howmuch did all this cost?
With radio therapy...
225万磅 two and a quartermillion.
完全闲置 真可怕 不 也可以说是幸运 It's appalling it's not used!
No, a very good thing in some ways.
延长使用寿命 降低运作成本 Prolongs its life,cuts down running costs.
可是没有病人啊 But there are no patients!
没有 本职工作仍然得完成 But essential work has to go on.
Aren't patients essential work?
管理500人是个大工程 大臣 Running an organisationof 500 people is a big job.
But if they weren't here,they wouldn't be here!
这不对头 不能这样下去 This is wrong.
It won't do.
再不收病人 我就关闭医院 Either get some patientsor I'll close it.
Well, in the course of time...
Not in the course of time.
裁掉300名员工 雇些医生 收些病人 Get rid of 300 staff, get somedoctors and get some patients!
且慢 少了300人 医院没法运转 Without those 300 peoplethis hospital wouldn't function!
And it's functioning now?
大臣 这是国内运转最良好的医院之一 Minister, it's one of the best
-runhospitals in the country.
准备拿南丁格尔奖的 It's up fora Florence Nightingale Award.
什么奖项? "本区最卫生的医院" What, pray, is that?"The Most Hygienic Hospital".
罗杰夫人 我话说到头了 必须裁300人 I've said my last word.
300 staff must go.
300 jobs lost?
Surgery with a skeleton staff?
别动大手术 治治静脉曲张 痔疮 什么都好 Don't do any surgery.
Do varicoseveins, piles...
Do something!
没错 弗雷泽先生 You mean 300 jobs lost?
Yes, I do.
医院不是就业处 它是治病用的 A hospital is a placefor healing of the sick!
它是我们会员的衣食父母 你要裁掉他们 It's employment for my members,and you want to sack them.
Is that your compassionate society?
对病人仁爱 不是对你们会员 Compassionate to patientsrather than your members!
好 我们会罢工抗议 We'll come out on strike.
太好了 快去 Very well, do that.
罢工更好 快去快去 Who can it harm?
Do, please!
Strike, the sooner the better!
带上行政人员一起 省得我们发工资了 Take the administrators with you.
Then we shan't have to pay you.
好的 谢谢 大臣 How about a drink before home?
是 大臣 That went well at the hospital.
我立场坚定 毫不退让 对 大臣 I wasn't standing any argument.
正中我下怀 干杯 干杯 Threatening to strike!
Played right into my hands.
Aren't we missing the news?
分社发回消息 美国正在施压 Our diplomatic correspondentsays the US is pressuring the UK
要求英国接收古巴难民 to take Cuban refugees.
政府不予置评 The Governmenthas made no comment.
当然 没钱嘛 Got no money.
伦敦所有公立医院的工人 All workers in London hospitals
从周五午夜起展开罢工 are to go on strikeat Friday midnight.
导火索来自伦敦圣爱医院 A row has blown upat St Edward's
决定辞退170名工友 over the proposed laying
-offof 170 ancillary workers.
我们采访了工会活动家比利・弗雷泽 We spoke to activist Billy Fraser.
我们以罢工抗议失业 We're strikingagainst unemployment.
我们能让全伦敦的医院瘫痪 We can bring London's hospitalsto a complete standstill.
没法输血 没法手术 There'll beno blood transfusions,
没法治疗癌症 全部停摆 no cancertreatment, nothing!
直到他们贯彻"仁爱社会" Till we havethe compassionate society.
不是我们 是哈克的错 How can you do this to patients?
It's Mr Hackerthat's doing it.
But you're inflicting terriblesanctions on the innocent public.
借此机会 我向媒体和公众保证 I'd like to take this opportunityto assure the general public,
不解决问题我们绝不动摇 every stone will be left unturnedin a search for a settlement.
你说你跟工会协商的 对 我知道 Have you seen the news?
You said you'd talk to the unions!
还有更严重的问题 What are we going to do?
We have a more serious problem.
莫里斯爵士领导的独立调查 Sir Maurice's independent enquiryabout the department.
对我们不利 It's unfavourable to us.
你说他可靠的 他不是想做贵族吗 You said he was sound!
没错 但贵族头衔也关系到 I know, but he's also workingas chairman
他是难民安置委员会主席 of the Refugee ResettlementCommittee.
明白了 难民比调查更能加分 There are more Brownie pointsfor refugees than enquiries!
正是 大臣 Precisely, Minister.
We've no moneyto re
-house the refugees.
挂掉 我不想接 Minister?
I don'twant to talk!
是首相府 It's Number 10...
Hello, Ji...
明白了 I see.
没关系 谢谢您 Not at all.
首相府看到了弗雷泽的新闻 They've seen Fraser on the news.
要求马上讲和 They want a peace formula soon.
莫里斯爵士说他只要求 Sir Maurice says he'll be satisfied
英国安置1000名难民 only if the UKwill house1,000 refugees.
Butwe haven't the money.
Or for 1,000 hospital beds...
1000个 How many refugees?
1000难民 1000床位 人员齐备 1,000 refugees?
1,000 beds!
大臣 医院要服务英国病人 不是外国健康人 Minister, that hospital isfor sick British not healthy foreigners!
你不是说 There's a huge waiting list.
Didn't you just say
Sir Maurice's enquiry was likelyto come down against us?
That's a...
That what you want?
我明白了 大臣 I see your point, Minister.
伯纳 召回圣爱医院所有工人 Bernard, reinstate all the workersat St Edward's.
告诉莫里斯爵士我们有家新医院 Tell Sir Mauricewe can offer a new hospital,
可容纳1000名难民 with accommodationfor 1,000 refugees.
告诉媒体是我的决策 皆大欢喜 Tell the press itwas my decisionand that everybody's happy.
就写 Do want to give a quote, Minister?
"抉择很艰难 但不得不做" "It was a tough decision,but a necessary one.
"为了维护不列颠..." If Britain is to retainthe name of...
谢谢 "The compassionate society"?
"The compassionate society".
Happy Birthday to You
TLF HALFCD TeaM 北方的橋 |
在兩人之間 Babylon
Julien 是你嗎?
"親愛的Mathias 希望你一切都好 寫於健康酒店'"
- 你能去酒店問一下Julien l'Ange是不是一直都還住那兒
Marie 是這樣 應該是叫Marie
我的名字是 Baptiste
Baptiste不是你的真名
你口中的"命運" Baptiste 是無稽之談
如果他們願意 Marie
但聽著 Baptiste 我是自由的 看 我可以向左走一步
星星(l'etoile )在那兒 在我們對面
再見 Baptiste!
一會兒見 Marie!
你很漂亮 Marie 你很漂亮
怎麼了 Julien?
不行 Marie 我有一些事要處理
而我一直在想Julien
這不是小說 Baptiste 這是現實生活
Julien對我來說就是我的生命
你知道嗎 Baptiste 這麼多年以來我曾相信過很多東西
- 這樣更好 Marie
稍安勿躁 Marie 相信我
Julien 你該告訴我真相
Marie 我知道對你來說很難 但你一定要相信我
- 但Baptiste!
一會兒見 Stalingrad(巴黎十九區地名)
你為什麼要拿Julien的包?
-Laribiere的劫持者在圖爾被逮捕"
"Pitoun被劫持:
"Mesrine 想要綁架 Philippe Bouvard"
"Mesrine的司機被逮捕"
"在逃亡中 Hyvert殺死了一個飯店老闆"
"為什麼 Empain 被釋放了"
"所有人都對De Broglie先生津津樂道"
"Alexandre Sanguinetti在聖寵谷死亡" 注:
聖寵谷(Val de Grace)巴黎五區的一所軍醫院
"Pierre就Golmane事件發表了自己的見解"
"De Broglie:
"Ampin和他妻子Sylvana...
"Golmane 收到了900法郎" 好吧
"Boulin事件:
"Mesrine被殺 他的同伴也同樣被殺死"
"Dutronc毫無準備地陷入了瑞士的糾葛中 不知道什麼在等待著他"
"Dassault的個人狀況將被仔細審查"
Bernard Galle的恐慌"
"人們現在可以在警察局找到歹徒 Simonet"
"誰暗殺了Debreuil先生"
- 嗯 Marie LaFee
他 你看 "年輕的Mathias D和他的同夥Marie LaFee"
事實上是我和Mathias被騙了
Mathias還在監獄裏 他被關了三年
- 如你所願 Marie
- 任何情況下你的Julien總是早到
這完全行不通 你不該這麼做 Marie 你完全瘋了
我跟你說過 Julien 我想知道
聽著 Marie 這就是全部!
Julian 不要離開我
Julien 發生了什麼?
要我再說明白些嗎 很明顯 他是一個Max
Max 什麼的最大值?
(Max和Maximum的讀音近似)
我們無時不刻不在和他們相遇 Marie 你一定是瞎了
這是你的朋友Julien做的 當然
我相信 Julien 我不知道發生了什麼
愛情是盲目的 Marie
Julien可能不是一個Max 因為他是你的朋友
事實上 壞人 邪惡的心 Max無處不在
我確定Julien和他們在一起
你沒發現嗎 Baptise 在大自然裏 沒有好 也沒有壞
肚子裏有顆子彈的Max 這就是解釋
命運與我們同在 Marie 看
我就是從那兒出來的 那兒還關著我的朋友Mathias
現在不是逃跑的時候 Marie
沒有時間玩了 Marie
在遊戲裏沒有人是聖人 你很清楚這一點 Julien
Marie 我求你 把地圖給我 現在我們用它什麼都做不了 我們會失去所有的東西
地圖在Baptiste那兒
你難道不覺得你來這兒是因為Julien嗎?
Julien和我與你無關
為什麼你一直要和Julien作對?
- Marie 你什麼都做不了
忘記Julien 忘記他 忘記巴黎
我想和Julien一起去 而Julien 我不想失去他!
Werner 從法蘭克福的衛城逃跑了 Henrik 他在牢房裏自殺了
Maria Karrar在鮮花廣場炸毀了他的車
Un Block House 注:
canard有鴨子 也有報紙的意思
小心 Marie 槍裏可能裝了子彈
我是Marie 充滿感激 上帝與我同在
請進 Madame.
不 我不是在做夢 蜘蛛網 那是監獄 Marie
如果Julien在這兒 他會擲硬幣決定
- 這不是一場遊戲 Marie!
看 看這兒 Marie!
還有 Baptiste!
Baptiste 我想打個電話
但我沒辦法 Julien
你的朋友Marie 你很在意她嗎?
如果你傷害她 你一定會後悔的 就像我的名字是Baptiste一樣確定
Marie 她在黑名單上
Marie 你要做一個了斷
kata 空手道的形 即固定的一套動作
...Humungus公爵的复仇
claudia 校对时间轴:
生活质量 The Quality of Life
他还在跟宣传秘书开会 汉弗莱爵士 He's still with the Press Officer, Sir Humphrey.
Would you like a coffee?
伯纳 如果大臣和宣传秘书在一起 If the Minister is with the Press Officer,
我们吃顿大餐也有时间 we've probably got time for a six
-course lunch.
早 戴斯蒙爵士 早 汉弗莱 哦 戴斯蒙 Morning, Humphrey.
他在开会 用不了多久的 He's got somebody with him, but he'll only be a moment.
试了 恐怕目前希望不大 Did you sound him out about...
Yes, but it doesn't look hopeful.
为什么 我们银行只不过想 All my bank wants is to put six
在新办公楼上加盖6层而已 没问题嘛 little storeys on the new office block.
我从来不读 Read the Financial Times today?
你是银行家嘛 当然要读金融时报 You're a banker, surely you read the Financial Times?
看也看不懂 全是经济理论 Can't understand it.
Full of economic theory.
唉 专业形象的一部分嘛 Why do you buy it?
It's part of the uniform.
我花了30年才搞懂凯恩斯理论 Took me 30 years to understand Keynes' economics.
刚摸着门 大家又去追捧新货币理论了 I'd just cottoned when everyone got hooked on monetarist ideas
你知道 米尔顿・舒曼说的"我要自由市场" you know, "I Want To Be Free", by Milton Shulman.
Milton Friedman?
Why are they all called Milton?
我就知道米尔顿・凯恩斯 I've only got as far as Milton Keynes.
Maynard Keynes?
肯定有个米尔顿・凯恩斯 I'm sure there's a Milton Keynes.
对对 是有一个 Yes, there is, it's...
你还没看过大臣昨晚 You didn't read about the Minister's speech
to the Architectural Association last night,
抨击了摩天大楼群 媒体反响很好 attacking skyscraper office blocks?
我们那幢可不是摩天大楼 Ours isn't a skyscraper.
38层 How many storeys?
再加这6层 就是44层 44 with the extra six we're asking for.
可他说最高不许超过8层 He was talking about the maximum tolerable height being eight.
Surely you can talk him out of it?
Work him upwards?
你不就干这个嘛 劝他放弃政策 That's your job talking him out of things.
对 可别忘了他承诺过 Don't forget, there's a promise
限制高层建筑 to prevent any more high
-rise buildings
写在他竞选宣言的环境部分 in the environment section of the manifesto.
也不一定 Does that scupper it?
Not necessarily.
你看 每位大臣的高级公务员 There's an implicit pact offered to every Minister
都会向其暗示一笔交易 by his senior officials.
如果大臣帮我们实施的政策 If the Minister implements the opposite
与他的承诺截然相反 policy to the one he's pledged to,
一旦上任 他必然发现宣言不可行 which, once in office, he will see is incorrect,
我们就帮他掩饰 假装他遵守了承诺 we'll help him to pretend he's following his manifesto.
这交易挺合理的 听上去确实合理 That's a very reasonable offer.
It sounds reasonable.
不幸的是 戴斯蒙 政客们尽管有很多 Unfortunately, among the many
卓越的特质 extraordinary qualities politicians possess,
讲理却不怎么被他们看重 reasonableness isn't the first that springs to mind.
至少一般大臣都是如此 Not when one contemplates the average Minister.
而我们的大臣非常一般 And our Minister is very average.
但是我们确实需要加盖几层 But we need those extra floors.
而且如果你退休后加入董事会 And if you're joining the board when you retire,
没有办公室就麻烦了 it'll be tricky if there's no office to put you in.
Entertaining your visitors in a Portakabin in the car park?
我又没说不批给你 I'm not saying you won't get permission
只是今天不行 耐心点 just not today.
Be patient.
Surely if a Minister's made a decision, that's it?
他决定的就是决议呗 What gave you that idea?
Surely a decision's a decision?
我们满意的才是决议 Only if it's the decision you want.
要不然 只是一时挫折而已 If not, it's just a temporary setback.
大臣都像小孩子 容易冲动 Ministers are like small children:
今天吵着要什么东西 They want something desperately
明天就忘得一干二净 and next day forget they asked for it.
He is a Minister of the Crown.
You know why he's called that?
他说话一般不过大脑 He's always talking off the top of his head...
或者说完就抛到脑后 or through the back of it!
不不不 You won't accept his decision?
我要从热烈欢迎 坚决支持开始 I start by accepting it and supporting it enthusiastically,
然后请他交给我完成 then I tell him to leave it to me.
汉弗莱 搞建筑的来了 Humphrey, the architect fellow.
早上好 克劳福 请坐 大臣还得一会儿 Morning, Crawford.
The Minister won't keep a moment.
So, what's going to happen?
我先跟他谈谈 I'll have a minute with him first,
但今天上午别指望太多 but don't expect too much this morning.
就当成小孩子为米饭布丁闹腾吧 Think of it as a child's tantrum over a rice pudding.
今天碰也不碰 明天就要两份 Won't touch it today and yet wants two helpings tomorrow.
啊 米饭布丁 好啊 Ah, rice pudding...
其实我也满喜欢米饭布丁的 I always liked rice pudding.
大臣 这真是太棒了 Minister, it's really excellent.
"哈克大声疾呼 反对高层建筑" 是不错 "Hacker speaks out against tower blocks."
"大臣咬定摩天大楼不松口" "Minister's courageous stand on high buildings."
难道我是蜘蛛人么 I sound like a steeplejack.
What about the popular press?
How do I get into the mass circulation dailies?
报纸一般爱登漂亮姑娘的照片 What about a photograph?
The papers like photos of a pretty girl
这个标准 我算够不上了 I don't quite qualify on that score.
不 我是说 您可以去选美比赛当评委 Judge a beauty contest
亲吻冠军 这就上报了 a photo of you kissing the winner.
太俗了吧 再说要是登我的照片 If my picture's in the papers,
人们应该关注我 而不是美女 people should look at me, not some pretty girl.
不然跟小动物或小孩拍照也行 Otherwise, something with cuddly animals or small children,
比如今天下午访问城市农场 like this afternoon's visit to the city farm.
邮报 镜报 每日快报 Is everything laid on Mail, Mirror, Express?
And the Sun, Today and Nationwide.
Nationwide?
走运的话 Will I be on telly?
With any luck.
好 这还差不多 先生 您是效忠皇冠的嘛 Well done!
You are a Minister of the Crown, sir.
您还得和一群小驴子合个影 There's some baby donkeys laid on to be photographed with.
是的 先生 Donkeys?
太阳报特别询问 The Sun specifically asked
您能否站在驴子中间拍照 if you could be photographed amongst the donkeys.
What do you think, Bernard?
即使太阳报动机纯良 Even if the Sun has no ulterior motive
侦探报也会大做文章 it'll be a gift for Private Eye.
"您和其他驴子" You with a crowd of other donkeys.
是他们会这么说 大臣 或者"核心内阁会议" That's what they would say.
Or a meeting of the Inner Cabinet.
What are you here for, Bernard?
对 汉弗莱爵士来了 好吧 Sir Humphrey's here.
农场肯定还有小猪吧 There's also some little pigs.
我看小猪也强不到哪去 I don't think that's a great improvement.
想想"猪嘴刨食"(以权谋私)的笑话 用用脑子 Snouts in the trough jokes pull yourself together!
可是大臣 我最多和羊羔拍个照 最多了 I will consent to be photographed with a lamb, that's all.
啊 汉弗莱 早上好 Ah, Humphrey.
大臣 戴斯蒙・格雷布克爵士来了 Sir Desmond Glazebrook is outside.
Glazebrook?
That old fool who makes anti
-Government speeches?
就是他 您任命他为 Yes, and you appointed him
工业合作主席 chairman of the co
-partnership commission.
What's he want?
他找您谈一个申请 He wants to talk about his forthcoming application
给他在建的银行大厦多批几层楼 to put more storeys on his bank's office block.
当前要打击的正是这个 汉弗莱 That's just the thing we must stop, Humphrey.
得有人为环境登高一呼 Somebody has to speak out about the environment,
在摩天大楼上勇敢站出来 take a stand on high buildings.
这造型拍下来登报挺好 That would make a good press photograph.
谢谢 伯纳 Thank you, Bernard.
听您的 大臣 不过他的项目不错 It's up to you, but he does have a good case.
Have you read the background papers?
当然读了 提醒我一下 Yes, of course.
Remind me.
银行指出 The bank points out that
附近已经有几幢摩天大楼 there are already several tower blocks nearby,
这次是为了银行国际部 and it is the international division of the bank
迅速扩张 expanding rapidly.
银行得建在市中心 It needs a central location.
会大幅增加城市税收 It would bring in revenue for the city.
Money, money, money.
What about beauty, Humphrey?
确实啊 大臣 美观 Indeed, Minister, beauty.
拿笔记下来 伯纳 Make a note of that, Bernard.
What about our children?
And their children?
确实 大臣 "子孙后代" 伯纳 Exactly, Minister, "Children's children", Bernard.
Who are you serving?
God or Mammon?
我侍奉您 大臣 I'm serving you, Minister.
既然如此 汉弗莱 请戴斯蒙爵士进来 In that case, Humphrey, show Sir Desmond in.
Glazebrook!
I'll give him high
-rise buildings...
Sir Desmond, how nice to see you!
就盖几层楼的事儿 加盖6层 It's these extra storeys, six of them.
正式申请随后递交 We'll make a formal application later
but any guidance you can give us...
话说在前头 我一向反对高层建筑 I warn you that I have misgivings about tower blocks.
不然怎么赚钱啊 多造6层才能大翻身 This is how we make profits.
Six extra storeys and we clean up.
不然这个项目只有可怜的28%的赚头 Without them, we'll only make a measly 28% on the project.
懂了 净讲利润是不是 不是净利润 是毛利 It's just profits, is it?
Not "Just profits", it's profits!
Don't you think of anything but money?
这是幢楼 不是幅画 What about beauty?
It's a building, not an oil painting.
And the environment?
对 我保证让大楼融入环境 We'll make sure it's part of the environment.
都杵在那了 想不融入也难 It's bound to be, once it's there.
抱歉 戴斯蒙爵士 还有一件事 大臣 I'm sorry, Sir Desmond...
There's one thing, Minister.
报上说 政府发过这种批文 As you know, similar permission was given
给纽约大通银行 to Chartered of New York,
so to refuse a British bank...
So it's all right?
不 不行 Er...
No, it isn't.
Why not, damn it?
-it's not necessarily...
大臣是担心一幢新楼 The Minister is concerned that another tall building
会破坏已有的天际线 will clutter the skyline.
对 破坏天际线 That's right, it would clutter the skyline.
也很担心 项目所需的大批工人 He's also worried that more workers in the area
会拖累城市交通系统 would strain the transport system.
我很担心交通系统 I'm worried about public transport.
而且 他还指出高楼会挡住 Furthermore, he points out that it will overshadow
附近小学操场的阳光 没错 the playground of the St Joseph's Primary School.
大楼上可以俯瞰私家花园 It would overlook private gardens
从而侵犯了个人隐私 which would be an intrusion of privacy.
隐私 污染 Privacy!
Pollution!
另外他还指出 一针见血啊大臣 Furthermore, the Minister points out, most astutely
贵行在不远处还有块空地 that the bank owns a vacant site close by
正好能解决你们扩张的需求 which would accommodate your expansion needs.
That's the river, isn't it?
大臣指的是这块地 The Minister was referring to this site.
是的 戴斯蒙爵士 Is that ours?
It is, Sir Desmond.
计划用于三期工程 What's it for?
It's scheduled for phase three.
那是三期工程用的 再说它在400码以外呢 That's scheduled for phase three.
it's 400 yards away.
董事们没法跑到400码之外去吃午饭 Difficult for the board to walk 400 yards to lunch...
吃完就更走不回来了 ...and impossible to walk back afterwards.
戴斯蒙爵士 正式申请你们爱交就交 Put in your formal application by all means,
不过我决心已定 but that will be my decision.
Minister, suppose we designed a different rice pudding?
Rice pudding?
对 银行家管高楼叫米饭布丁 大臣 Bankers' jargon for high
-rise buildings.
伯纳 请送送戴斯蒙爵士 Bernard, show Sir Desmond out.
再会 戴斯蒙爵士 Bye, Sir Desmond.
哦 好的 Oh, yes.
多谢你 汉弗莱 你那些提醒太及时了 Thank you, your reminders were very helpful.
我很荣幸 大臣 我们真是绝配啊 A pleasure.
Real teamwork, what?
而且格雷布克还是你熟人 Especially as Glazebrook is your chum.
对 我们是老朋友了 大臣 We're very old friends.
不过至交好友又怎能比得上 But it is as naught compared to
a civil servant's duty to his Minister.
当然是真的 大臣 Humphrey, do you mean that?
Of course, Minister!
你太好了 谢谢夸奖 How very nice.
半点了 大臣 我得赶快了 It's after half past.
I've got to dash.
非常紧急 Urgent appointment?
Very urgent.
不是 差不多的 Cabinet committee?
That sort of thing.
非常重要 Could you sign this?
It's extremely urgent.
我已经晚了 Do I have to?
I'm late already.
It's an administrative order to formalise Government powers
该命令正式授权政府 for the utilisation of unused local authority land
利用地方上的未规划土地 until development commences,
当然 规划后再交还地方 then it reverts to the authority.
十万火急 Do I have to sign now?
Why hasn't it been before the House?
当然 如果是法规 If it were a statutory instrument
就要下院审核 it would have to go before the House,
可这是行政命令 but it's an administrative order,
根据环境法案第7条第3款 under section seven of the Environment Act,
就是管辖权条款 which is an enabling section,
规定大臣有权出台政策 empowering the Minister to make regulations
对地方上未开垦土地 regarding unused local authority land
随时进行适当调整 as necessary from time to time
只要在该法案框架内 您当然记得的 within the framework of the Act, as I'm sure you recollect.
Why doesn't it go before the House?
我说了 如果是法规 If it were a statutory instrument
但这是行政命令 but because it is an administrative order
under section seven of the...
好好汉弗莱 我签完了 快点伯纳 谢谢 大臣 All right, Humphrey, I have signed it!
Why was that so urgent?
其实并不急 您刚才说很急 It wasn't.
But you said it was.
不是很急 但是非常重要 It wasn't urgent, but it was important.
任何将大臣的决策权 Any document transferring decision
-making power
转移给我们的文件都很重要 from Ministers to us is important.
Oh, Bernard...
拜托你别呆头呆脑的行不行 Don't be obtuse, please.
这是从政治中解救政府之道 It helps take Government out of politics.
惟其如此 英国才能长存 It's Britain's only chance of survival.
Couldn't it have waited until he wasn't in a hurry?
伯纳 要让大臣不问缘由直接签字 When we want Ministers to sign without asking questions
就得挑他们慌慌张张的时候 we wait until they're in a hurry
注意力最薄弱 and their concentration is weakest.
容易得手 所以要让他们忙着 That's why we keep them on the go.
Bernard, where was the Minister rushing off to so secretively?
访问塔区的一个小学生农场 A school children's city farm in Tower Hamlets.
唉 这位仁兄为露脸真是无所不为啊 My God!
The things that man will do for publicity.
Is he going as a visitor or as an exhibit?
Very droll, Sir Humphrey.
我是大臣的宣传秘书普利查德 Mrs Philips?
I'm Bill Pritchard, the Minister's Press Officer.
大臣 这位是菲利普太太 农场主管 This is Mrs Philips, the warden of the park.
干的漂亮 您好 您好 How do you do?
We didn't get your arrival
could we have it again?
当然可以 Sorry?
Could you arrive again?
他已经到这里了啊 How can he arrive again?
For the cameras.
Mind what?
就拍个到达场景 Let's see you arriving.
对对 Does this often happen?
But I don't understand...
准备 开拍 Turn over...
大家快挥手 Wave, everybody!
欢迎您 大臣 非常高兴能来这里 Welcome, Minister.
It's a great pleasure.
您能来太好了 I'm glad you've come.
我们请过别的名人 谁都不肯来 We tried other celebrities but nobody could come.
停机 怎么啦 Cut.
停机停机 停机 Cut, cut, cut!
We'll cut that out, right?
Yes, but...
别可是了 掐掉 Not but, cut!
请容许我向您介绍市长阁下 May I introduce you to His Worship, the Mayor?
电视执照税又涨了 Licence fees are coming up again.
好啦 给我讲讲这个 Now, tell me all about this.
这是一只小猪 This is a piglet.
不是 讲讲城市农场 No, tell me about this city farm.
哦 有50多座城市农场 There are over 50 city farms
都建在城中荒地 built in urban wasteland
好让难得下乡的城里孩子 to give children who seldom see the countryside
有机会观察牲畜和粮食生产 a chance to understand livestock and food production.
What a wonderful idea!
And this is your first anniversary?
是的 恭喜恭喜 Yes.
大臣 能否拍个您向 Could we have a shot congratulating
Mrs Philips for the television?
当然可以 听你们的 Certainly, by all means.
对不起 小猪 Everyone's a ham!
不错 So this is your first anniversary here?
恭喜恭喜 干得好 Congratulations.
非常成功 非常好 Jolly good show.
Got enough now?
请您抓紧时间 大臣 先发表讲话 If we may hurry you, make your speech first,
然后会见农场员工 and then meet the staff.
我想和他们一起接受采访 I'd like to do the interview with some of those.
不 孩子们和动物 Staff?
No, the children and animals.
还行 Is this working?
给您了 大臣 Got my speech?
I gave it to you.
No, you've got it.
我们很荣幸请到了詹姆斯・哈克先生 It gives me pleasure to welcome Mr James Hacker,
行政事务部大臣 the Minister for Administrative Affairs,
他从百忙之中抽空 who has found time in his busy schedule
莅临我们农场的周年庆 to be with us today to celebrate our first anniversary.
谢谢大家 很高兴今天和各位欢聚一堂 Thank you.
It's a great pleasure to be here with you all today.
大家知道 这是变化的年代 You know, things are changing fast.
当今世界瞬息万变 We live in a world of change.
电脑芯片改变着我们的生活 The silicon chip is changing our lives.
生活质量日益重要 Quality of life is becoming more and more important.
环境保护 可持续发展 Environment, conservation
污染治理 孩子们的未来 problems of pollution, the future of our children,
子子孙孙的未来 都是今天的议题 and our children's children.
These are today's issues.
就目前受到广泛关注的 There is, quite rightly, increasing concern
高层建筑问题 about high
我乐意向大家保证 I'm happy to reassure you,
members of the Architectural Association...
这是昨天的稿子 It's yesterday's speech.
我只有这份 您掏掏口袋 大臣 It's the one I have, look in your pocket.
真抱歉 So sorry!
I made a speech yesterday and...
今天来到城市农场 我十分荣幸 It's a great pleasure to be here at the city farm today.
电脑芯片改变着我们的生活 The silicon chip...
is changing our lives.
生活质量日益重要 Quality of life is more important...
Pollution...
future of our children's children...
建造城市农场 These are the issues...
The city farm movement
这一有趣而重要的设施 is a welcome and important addition
造福了城市儿童 to the way of life for children in cities.
政府认为 它极大地促进了 We feel they play an vital part
儿童的教育和社会生活 in children's educational and social life.
我们应不遗余力使其蓬勃发展 We shall do all we can to help this movement flourish.
生日快乐 Happy birthday.
Sue Lawley's arrived, can we do the interview now?
没问题 Yes, set it up with the most attractive children and animals.
谢谢您的发言 大臣 很荣幸 Thank you for saying that, Minister.
Can we really rely on your support?
当然可以 您看 Of course you can.
我们的租约年底就到期了 得想办法续约才行 Our lease is running out and we have to get it extended.
我没法干涉这个 但我会尽力 I can't really influence it, but I'll try to
使农场蓬勃发展 help this movement to flourish.
这是晚间新闻的苏・罗雷 Would you do the interview now?
This is Sue Lawley
苏・罗雷 久仰久仰 Sue Lawley, what a great pleasure.
我可是您的热心观众 大概是最热心的 I do believe I'm probably your greatest fan!
抱歉打搅 大臣 Sorry to butt in,
but could the children and staff get autographs?
当然可以 Autographs?
Certainly.
行了 签够了 Come on, that's enough.
What did you want to say?
我先问主管几个问题 I'll ask some questions of the warden
再请您评论 and then come to you for comments.
我觉得这不错 Where would you like us to be?
要 太好了 Perhaps with animals and children?
Yes, splendid!
让这个可爱的小女孩坐您腿上 谢谢 Put this sweet little girl on your knee, Mr Hacker.
好 行了 快拍吧 All right, let's get on with it.
准备 开拍了 苏 Turn over!
We're running, Sue.
主管女士 听说贵农场租约年底就到期了 Warden, I understand the lease of this city farm will run out
是的 我们很担心 Yes, we've been worried about this.
但我向哈克先生反映之后 But I've just had a word with Mr Hacker,
他表示会保证 and he has indicated that he will ensure
农场顺利运营 that this farm can carry on.
Minister, how will you ensure this farm keeps running?
you see...
事实是 这点我要强调 The fact is, and let me make this clear...
现今生活质量日益重要 Quality of life is becoming more important,
环境保护 可持续发展 污染治理 the environment, conservation, problems of pollution...
我们孩子的未来 The future of our children...
大臣 太谢谢您了 停 伯纳 Minister, thank you.
对了 昨天你那位上电视了 I saw your chap on the television last night
抱了个小兔子 cuddling a rabbit.
塔区的圣方济各(天主教的动物与环境圣徒) St Francis of Tower Hamlets.
What was it in aid of?
拉啮齿动物的选票吧 After the rodent vote, I imagine.
这些城市农场倒不错啊 Quite a good idea, those city farms.
Are you still worried about parking at Tower House?
难着呢 塔区可是 Desperately!
It's the major blockage to
国税监察员的大本营 recruiting Inland Revenue inspectors.
那里正有1.2亩地方机动土地 There's a 1.2 acre local authority site nearby
租约就要到期了 with the lease running out.
对 但我们无权征用啊 现在有了 But we haven't the authority.
You have now.
于昨日签署 You mean an order under Section 7?
Signed yesterday.
汉弗莱 你太棒了 怎么办到的 Humphrey!
How did you manage it?
无关紧要 What's the site used for now?
Nothing of any significance.
小学生的城市农场 A city farm for school children.
Like the one St Francis was visiting?
不会就是那家吧 Not the one?
我就说这种东西不该办 I've always said those things are a bad idea.
不卫生 威胁公众健康 Unhygienic and a danger to public health.
你们最好赶快 趁他们续约之前 might be good to move quickly, before the lease were renewed.
Won't it put your Minister in a spot?
I'm sure I'll find him a way out.
I'm sure you will.
不了 谢谢 得回去参见圣徒了 No, thanks, I must be getting back to Assisi.
谢谢你的招待 弗兰克 别客气 Thank you for lunch.
Not at all.
一路顺风 天主保佑 Enjoy your trip.
Bless you.
是你啊 汉弗莱 It's you, Humphrey.
我有办法让大臣吃米饭布丁了 I think I know how to get the Minister to eat his rice pudding.
晚报来了 大臣 Evening paper, Minister.
中心页 是吗 Centre page.
跨版图片 真不错啊 Double
-page spread, what about that!
"塔区的圣方济各" "The St Francis of Tower Hamlets."
一张我和小鸭子 还有一张我和小女孩 There's a picture of me with ducks.
Another with a small girl.
A black...
you know, one of...
公众效应真不错 What good publicity!
Are there any more city farms to visit?
曼彻斯特 伯明翰 格拉斯哥 Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow.
The marginal, I mean, the special development areas.
伯纳 你看这跨版报道 是是 大臣 Bernard, how about this double
-page spread?
今早镜报和昨天晚间新闻的头条 Top of the Mirror, Nationwide last night.
You're very quiet, what's the matter?
Mrs Philips, the warden of the city farm you visited yesterday
昨天那家农场的主管 the warden of the city farm you visited yesterday
Is she pleased with the publicity?
She doesn't seem pleased.
The farm's being closed.
明年之前 改成国税监察员停车场 It's being turned into a car park for Inland Revenue inspectors.
My God, what will they say about this?
"孩子和小动物被税吏挤走" "Children and animals evicted by taxman."
"大臣背弃电视宣言" "Minister goes back on TV pledge."
老天 得赶紧阻止 想想办法 比尔 Heavens!
This must be stopped.
您自己 大臣 What idiot authorised that?
您昨天签署的行政命令 What?
授权政府使用 The order you signed yesterday giving Government
地方机动土地 power over local authority land.
第7条第3款 叫汉弗莱来 Section 7, subsection 3.
Get Humphrey.
他马上来 大臣 可菲利普太太到前厅了 He's on his way and Mrs Philips is in the private office.
最不想见的就是她 She's that last person I want to see.
这是本世纪最大灾难 This is the greatest disaster this century.
本世纪有两次世界大战 There were two world wars.
抢摊登陆是一回事 Fighting on the beaches is one thing
赶走动物和小孩 evicting animals and children
给收税的腾地可严重多了 啊 汉弗莱 for tax inspectors' cars is another.
大臣 我看到您昨晚上电视了 非常精彩 Minister, I saw you on television last night.
What a treat!
Never mind that, what about the city farm being closed?
得阻止他们 The Treasury...
It's got to be stopped!
可惜这是财政部决议 Unfortunately, it's a Treasury decision
我们无权干涉 and beyond our jurisdiction.
我要撤回那道命令 恐怕不可行 或很困难 I shall revoke the order.
That is impossible.
Or difficult.
不是上策 违反法律 总之肯定摊上了一项 Or inadvisable.
Or requires legislation.
One of those.
就算撤销 也不能 Anyway, it could not invalidate an action
追溯既往决定 taken while the order was in force.
I don't care if it's the Queen and the Pope...
叛徒 什么 不至于吧 Judas!
I say, look here.
You promised to support us!
你必须让我们续约 You must see that our lease is renewed.
抱歉 My dear lady, it's not in the Minister's p...
哈克先生 你放过话的 Mr Hacker, you have given your word.
Are you going to keep it?
I shall leave no stone...
every avenue...
everything that is humanly possible...
不 You mean, no.
对 我不会 也就是会 绝对不会 Yes, I mean no.
I mean yes.
Definitely not.
对 我不会 Yes, I mean, no.
很好 别怪我没警告过你 Very well.
Don't say I haven't warned you.
我丈夫是每日快报副主编 My husband is Deputy Features Editor of the Express.
明天一早 你就会臭名远播 Tomorrow morning your name will be manure.
各大媒体 人人得而诛之 You will be roasted alive by the national press.
不容易啊 一夜之间 It falls to few people to be, in the space of 24 hours,
她从圣方济各变成圣女贞德 both St Francis and St Joan.
汉弗莱 千万得想办法 不能关农场 Humphrey, something must be done to stop this farm closing.
Otherwise, we shall look a complete...
戴斯蒙・格雷布克爵士来了 Yes?
Sir Desmond Glazebrook is outside.
我还真猜不到 让他进来 I can't imagine.
Send him in!
反正今天行政部算门户大开了 It's Open Day at the Department!
大臣 我正好路过 有个主意 Minister, I was passing and I've had an idea.
如果你批准我们加盖9层的话 If you gave us permission for an extra nine storeys...
不是6层吗 You asked for six!
对 可如果你批9层 我们就推迟三期工程 you gave us nine extra storeys, we could postpone phase three
for seven years, leaving this site vacant.
今早我读金融时报 I was reading this morning in the Financial Times
读到您访问城市农场 精彩之至 about your visit to the city farm, a jolly good wheeze.
三期工程那块地就在200码外 Our phase three site is only 200 yards away,
可以拿来扩展农场 so you could use it to extend the farm
就算搬过去 也比原来大 or if they had to move, it's a bit larger.
我们打算命名为 We thought of calling it
"詹姆斯・哈克可爱动物庇护所" "The James Hacker Cuddly Animal Sanctuary."
反正是"动物庇护所" Well, "Animal Sanctuary", anyway.
Nine storeys isn't very much, is it?
"詹姆斯・哈克动物庇护所" "James Hacker Animal Sanctuary."
汉弗莱你看 政府不能贸然 Government has to be awfully careful
about throttling small businesses.
银行并不是小企业 The bank isn't actually a small business.
扼杀之后就是了 伯纳 It would be if we throttled it, Bernard.
After all, what is another tower block where there are so many?
是的 大臣 确实如此 Yes, indeed, Minister.
我必须重新考虑我的决定 I shall be forced to reconsider my decision.
We'll be able to give Sir Desmond his six storeys...
给戴斯蒙爵士9层 赶快向媒体发布吧 Nine storeys.
Let's make a press announcement.
"詹姆斯・哈克动物庇护所" To the James Hacker Animal Sanctuary!
您不是担心伦敦公共交通嘛 You were worried about London Transport.
伦敦交通部门会很高兴创收的 They will be glad of the extra fares.
至于小学操场呢 As for the school...
他们没准还喜欢阴凉呢 They might welcome the shade.
尤其在热天 In the hot weather, certainly.
隐私是相互的 对吧 And privacy?
There are two sides to privacy.
人们也许就爱看那些办公楼里的事 People might enjoy looking at what goes on in those offices.
Extraordinary things go on in offices, don't they?
这首歌是《Wally by Catalani》
Abyssus abyssum invocat
abyssus abyssum是什么？
== Srt字幕轉制：
我得拿進去給阿Sir看，一會再聊
這個神經阿Sir真麻煩
阿Sir，我保證不會傷害無辜的
第一場開跑了，放心吧阿Sir，走了
288)}Dírected by 導演
mimi (豆瓣電影字幕翻譯小組)
288)}Chybi jim houslista.
奥秘 @LP_LadiesMan
牛津的GonviIIe and Caius學院
Aries 校对时间轴:
Humphrey, what are you havering about?
没说什么 只说大臣不一定批准 I'm simply saying we can't take the Minister's approval for granted.
意大利政府出了份大合同 The Italian government have offered a massive contract
要我们在莫西塞德郡生产丙醇 to manufacture propanol at our Merseyside plant,
这份合同 让我们正要倒闭的工厂起死回生 which means saving a plant we were going to have to close,
免除失业 增加出口税 saving jobs, earning export royalties.
He has to give us the go
But if the Minister thinks...
大臣哪会想事 Ministers don't think!
别跟我提大臣 Don't talk to me about Ministers.
我做了10年英国化工集团董事长 I've been chairman of British Chemical Corporation forten years,
一共跟19名大臣打过交道 天哪天哪 and in that time dealt with nineteen different Ministers.
他们总在瞎忙 没空见我 They've usually not had time to see me,
整天行贿工会领导人让他们别罢工 because they're too busy bribing Trade Union leaders not to strike.
They've never bribed anybody.
进公营机构吧 张三 当骑士吧 李四 领爵位吧 王五 "Have a quango, Tom;
a knighthood, Dick;
a peerage, Harry".
大臣他当然担心了 But the Minister's worried...
Of course he's worried!
我要是不能让这些 If I'd neverdone anything to worry
胆小鬼 做秀家 拉票狂担心起来 those vote
-grabbing baby
-kissing jellies,
我们集团10年前就玩完了 we'd have gone down the tube ten years ago!
But propanol contains metadioxin.
二恶英在萨维索(意大利)泄漏过 会伤害胎儿 Dioxin was released at Seveso.
It can damage the foetus.
二恶英归二恶英 变性二恶英是种非活性化合物 That's dioxin, for Christ's sake!
Metadioxin is an inert compound.
华盛顿食品药物管理局都开出了安全证明 It's been given a clean bill of health by Washington.
你设立的亨德森委员会 The Henderson Committee, which you set up,
也会这么说的 will give it the OK, too.
我知道 沃利 但这名字可能有些政治敏感性 I know, Wally, but the name could be politically sensitive.
可我在提案里没提变性二恶英 But I've taken metadioxin out of the proposal.
单单是丙醇 你真英明 I call it propanol.
Very wise of you.
你让我写的 那我真英明 You told me to.
Very wise of me!
照我说 大臣不会反对的 只是手段问题 But the Ministermay raise no objections, it just needs tact.
好的 那就是没问题了 Fine.
In that case, there's no problem.
我跟你去 使些手段 I'll have a tactful word with Hacker
亲自说服哈克那浆糊脑袋 and persuade the blancmange myself.
不是我不信你 沃利 Don't take this amiss, Wally,
幸运的话 凭我就能说服他 but I might just be able to manage
手段 without your unique...
brand of tact.
多好的消息啊 汉弗莱 是 大臣 This is wonderful news, Humphrey.
濒临倒闭的工厂 一夜间成了化工集团的摇钱树 We turn a run
-down plant from loss
-maker into a profitable unit,
他们成了欧洲最大的丙醇工厂 the largest manufacturer of propanol in Europe.
是 大臣 英国制造的领先设备 Yes, Minister.
Equipment made in UK factories.
地方政府得益 出口贸易交流 Income for the local authorities, foreign exchange from exports.
好得不像真的 确实是真的 大臣 Too good to be true!
It is true.
Good old propanol...
What is propanol, actually?
很有意思 丙醇从前用二恶英制造 It used to be made with dioxin
自从意大利萨维索泄漏事故 until the Seveso explosion
之后就重新开发了安全化合物 名为变性二恶英 then they developed a safe compound, metadioxin.
意大利的工厂被封闭 得请英国化工集团来制造 Italian factory is sealed off so they've asked the BCC to make it.
算他们倒霉 确实有点 An ill wind.
绝对安全 那就好 But this stuff is perfectly safe?
Perfectly.
软弱的大臣或许会对相似名字抱以怀疑 Weak Ministers might have doubts over the similarity of the names,
但有骨气的大臣不会 but no one with any backbone would be deflected
拒绝如此有利的项目 from such a beneficial project
就为这点细枝末节 on such a useless pretext.
可不是 我知道那种大臣 政治软脚虾 I know just the sort of Minister you mean.
Political jellyfish.
不敢做决策 生怕招惹谁 Terrified of taking any decision.
反正 决策总会得罪人的 Afterall, every decision upsets someone, doesn't it?
尽责的政府做出正确决策 Good government is doing what's right
not just what's popular.
Absolutely, Minister.
But this will be popular?
肯定大受欢迎 汉弗莱 确认一下 Very popular.
Humphrey, I want to be sure.
You're not asking me to make a courageous decision, are you?
绝对没有 大臣 这说哪里话 Of course not, Minister.
Good, good.
Should I take it to Cabinet?
I think the less said, the better.
尽管变性二恶英完全无害 Although metadioxin is totally harmless,
这名称可能会让无知的人紧张 the name may cause anxiety in ignorant minds.
Humphrey, you're talking about my Cabinet colleagues.
我说的是"地球之友"组织 这倒是 I was referring to the Friends of the Earth.
琼・利特勒来了 大臣 她是西南利物浦的议员 Yes?
Joan Littlerhas arrived, MP for Liverpool South West.
Know what she wants?
当然 她是首相的政务次官 She's the Prime Minister's PPS,
新工厂坐落于她的选区 and the new plant is in her constituency.
Showher in.
If you'll excuse us?
我还是留下吧 The PM's PPS?
I think I'll stay.
琼・利特勒 大臣 西南利物浦的议员 Joan Littler, memberfor Liverpool South West.
很高兴见到您 Do you know Humphrey Appleby?
Delighted to meet you.
快坐下 Do take a seat.
谢谢 伯纳 伯纳 Thank you, Bernard.
Bernard...
Now, what can I do foryou?
Jim, what's the BCC up to in my constituency?
即将启动一项振奋人心的新项目 促进就业和投资 They'll be announcing a very exciting project, with new jobs.
对 但有些很可怕的传闻 Yes...
but there's some very worrying rumours.
有关有害化学品 Such as?
Rumours of dangerous chemicals.
化学品都有害 All chemicals are dangerous...
大臣说那是空穴来风 不必担心 The Ministermeans the rumours are unfounded, no cause for alarm.
Can I have your assurance there'll be a full public enquiry?
调查一下也不错 Not a bad idea...
大臣是说完全不必公开调查 The Ministerwas about to say there's no need foran enquiry.
已经在研究了 近期会公布报告 A report will be issued shortly.
听好 我是来问吉姆的 I came here to talk to Jim.
你是在问他啊 可都是你替他答的 You are talking to him.
But he's not answering, you are!
The Ministerand I are of one mind.
我听说就是这种产品污染了意大利萨维索 I've heard this factory made the chemical that poisoned Seveso!
萨维索那是二恶英 这是变性二恶英 The chemical in Seveso was dioxin.
This is metadioxin.
还不是一样 名字相似而已 That's virtually the same thing.
Just a similar name.
只不过前面加了变性两字 It's the same name with "meta" stuck on the front.
That makes all the difference.
What does "meta" mean?
What does "meta" mean, Humphrey?
简单 意思是"副" "后"或"超" "With", "after" or "beyond".
词源来自希腊 就是"后二恶英"或"超二恶英" From the Greek, of course. "After" dioxin or "beyond" dioxin.
如果用宾格 就是"超"或"后" If it's in the accusative, it's "beyond orafter",
用所有格就是"副" 拉丁语也是 您当然记得 with the genitive it's "with", as in Latin, as you no doubt recall.
"副"作前缀就得用离格 The ablative is used forwords needing "with" to precede them.
不过当然 希腊语没有离格 But of course, there isn't an ablative in Greek.
说得好 伯纳 谢谢 Well done, Bernard.
不 不明白 You see?
Not exactly, no.
我觉得挺清楚的 我想知道的是 I thought thatwas perfectly plain.
What I insist on knowing
这两种药品的本质区别何在 is what is the actual difference between dioxin and metadioxin.
好说 变性二恶英是二恶英的一种非活性化合物 Metadioxin is an inert compound of dioxin.
我好像明白了 汉弗莱 I think I follow that, Humphrey,
but could you explain it a little more clearly?
In what sense, Minister?
What does "inert" mean?
It means it's not...
活性 ... ert.
连只苍蝇都"活"不了 Wouldn't "ert" a fly.
没什么 大臣 What did you say, Bernard?
Nothing, Minister.
What does that mean in practical terms?
You mean chemically?
Yes, chemically.
What does it mean chemically?
我不知道怎么用通俗语言解释 I can't explain it in layman's language...
当然不懂 大臣 Do you know any chemistry?
Of course not, Minister.
我是拿奖学金项目的 I was in the scholarship form.
古典文学系 Classics.
And what's a compound?
Don't you know any chemistry?
We ought to, oughtn't we?
A compound is a...
You know what compound interest is?
对对 让人高兴的东西 Yes, well, a jolly good thing.
化合物大概就这意思 That's the sort of thing a compound is.
就是这样 That's it, then.
总而言之 我们已经达成共识 To sum up, I think we're all of the same mind, broadly speaking.
可以批准了 We're ready to go ahead.
我可没这么说过 I've said no such thing!
我们都同意 只是名称问题 The only difference is in the name,
二恶英和变性二恶英 就像利特勒和希特勒 dioxin and metadioxin, like...
Littlerand Hitler.
总不会因为名字像 你为人也像他吧 Not that you're like Hitler because yourname's similar!
That's not the point.
What is the point?
重点是 这工厂在我选区里 The point is this factory is in my constituency!
这会给选区带来更多资金和就业 It'll be good forthe constituency, more jobs, more money.
我们最多得罪几个杞人忧天的环保主义者 The only people we'll offend are a few environmentalists.
百来张票 At most, it won't cost us more than 100 votes.
我的多数票只有91票 My majority is 91.
还不提旁边3个边缘选区票更少 Not to mention the three marginal constituencies bordering mine!
Could I intervene just once more?
化工集团这个丙醇项目可是倍受期待 The case forthe BCC manufacturing propanol is overwhelming.
倍受期待 Overwhelming.
好工作 高收入 出口订单也跑不了 Great jobs, increased income and secure, profitable export orders.
出口订单 另外 Export orders.
Furthermore...
华盛顿食品药品局宣布该产品安全 The drug has been declared safe by Washington,
华盛顿 我们也在准备相关报告 Washington.
We're preparing a report, too.
大臣坚信 The Minister is confident
这个项目能使你的选区乃至全国受益 this scheme is to the advantage of constituency and country.
如果证实了不安全 我也不会批 If it proves not to be safe, I won't allow its manufacture here.
But if the report says it is safe, that'd be absurd, wouldn't it?
我可不服气 吉姆 I'm not satisfied with that, Jim.
记住 是政党让你作议员 Rememberthat the party made you an MP,
如果下次政党落选 你也别当大臣了 and you can't be a Minister if your party loses the next election.
您还是不放心 大臣 You still don't look happy, Minister.
看起来行 可如果报告没你说的那么准 Suppose the report isn't as conclusive as you say.
没必要 Oughtn't I to meet this Henderson?
亨德森教授是剑桥优秀生化专家 我们精心挑选的 He's a brilliant Cambridge biochemist, chosen with some care.
Suppose he produces a cautious, wait
-see report?
那我们不公布 改用美国报告 We don't publish it.
We use the American report instead.
很好很好 Fine!
当然不是 只是不公布而已 You mean we suppress it?
No, we just don't publish it.
区别可大了 What's the difference?
All the difference in the world!
查禁是独裁专政的手段 Suppression is the instrument of dictatorships.
我们自由国家不讲这些 We don't talk of that sort of thing in a free country.
我们经民主程序决议不公布 We take a democratic decision not to publish.
What am I to say to the press and parliament?
"我们期待报告说这个决策很英明" "We hoped the report would say it was a wise decision.
"但它说不行 所以我们当它不存在" But we've cocked it up so we'll pretend the report doesn't exist".
Very droll.
What would I say?
There's a Government procedure for suppress...
...deciding not to publish reports.
当然 只要降低它的可信性 You simply discredit them.
老天啊 Good heavens!
第一步 从公众利益角度出发 Stage One, give your reasons in terms of the public interest.
Hint at security considerations...
Mind if I make a note?
好像很有用 可以拿来 This could be useful for discrediting
打发党内某些笨蛋的研究文件 some of the party's idiotic research documents.
指出该报告将给政府施加压力 引起误解 The report could put pressure on Government and be misinterpreted.
什么都可能被误解 耶酥的山上宝训也逃不过 Anything could be misinterpreted.
The Sermon on the Mount could be!
确实 如果山上宝训是政府文件 绝对不宜发表 Indeed the Sermon should not have been published.
该文件非常不负责任 A most irresponsible document.
那套善有善报的说法 All that stuff about the meek inheriting the earth
有可能严重降低国防预算 could do irreparable damage to the defence budget.
I suppose you're right.
然后说 最好等待长期具体报告 Say it's better to wait for a more detailed study over longertime.
那更好 自己派人写 Suppose there isn't one?
Commission one.
更加游刃有余 Gives you even more time to play with.
对 在第二阶段 All this is Stage One?
In Stage Two...
推翻那些你未公开的证据 discredit the evidence you're not publishing.
大臣 没公开更好推翻 How, if you're not publishing it?
It's easier if it's not published.
给媒体透个风 当然是小道消息 Do it by press leaks, of course, not directly.
说有些重要问题尚待解决 Say it leaves important questions unanswered,
证据说服力不强 the evidence is inconclusive,
数据可以有别的阐释 the figures are open to other interpretations,
某些研究结果自相矛盾 that certain findings are contradictory,
某些重点结论被人质疑 and that some of the main conclusions have been questioned.
自己质疑啊 Suppose they haven't?
Then question them!
这不就有了 Then they have!
要提出质疑 得仔细读懂它吧 But you'd have to go through it with a fine
-toothed comb.
不用不用 没读过也能提 No, no, no.
You'd say all these things without reading it.
凡是报告 都有没解决的问题 There's always some questions unanswered.
那些还没提出来的问题啊 Such as?
The ones that weren't asked.
对 第三步 That's Stage Two?
In Stage Three...
贬低报告中的建议 you undermine recommendations.
说它不足以作为长期计划的基础 "Not a basis for long
-term decisions.
没有足够信息 Not sufficient information
进行有效评估 on which to base a valid assessment".
当前政策并不需要推翻重来 "Not really any need for a fundamental rethink of policies".
总的来说 与现有做法区别不大 就这么简单 "Broadly speaking, endorses current practice".
It's easy.
几乎次次成功 That works?
Nearly always.
那就进入第四步 Suppose it doesn't?
Move on to Stage Four.
Stage Four?
第四步 质疑报告撰写者 Discredit the man who produced the report.
当然不能明说 Off the record.
暗示他对政府早已不满 或者想出风头 Say that he's harbouring a grudge against the Government
更有甚者 说他为跨国公司 or, betterstill, that he used to be a consultant
做过顾问 to a multi
-national company.
那就是想做 Supposing he wasn't?
Then he's hoping to be.
人人都想做跨国公司顾问 Everybody's hoping to be a consultant to a multi
-national.
要么他觊觎爵位 或学院院长职位 Orhe's trying for a knighthood orvice
-chancellorship.
大臣您看 可能性多了去了 There are endless possibilities.
打扰一下 大臣 Excuse me.
宣传办来电话 说丙醇工厂上了新闻 The press officerrang to say there's an item on the news.
好好 快开电视 我怎么不知道有 Yes, yes.
Why wasn't I told?
化工集团没有义务向我们报告 The BCC aren't obliged to clear itwith us.
默西赛德地区爆发了骚乱 A rowhas blown up on Merseyside
抗议特批意大利政府委托化工集团 about a plan for the BCC to manufacture propanol
在该地区生产丙酮 under licence forthe Italian government.
很明显 丙醇内含变性二恶英 Apparently, propanol contains metadioxin,
化工集团宣称其无毒无害 which the BCC claims to be completely harmless.
然而 这是二恶英的化合物 It is a compound of dioxin,
二恶英曾在意大利萨维索泄漏 the chemical released after an explosion at Seveso
于1976年7月 in July 1976,
毒雾扩散到方圆4英里内 spreading poisonous dust over a 4
-mile radius.
今天 默西赛德抗议者们在工厂门外疾呼 On Merseyside, protesters voiced their opposition to the BCC scheme
抗议化工集团的计划 outside the factory gates.
我跟你说 我们要怎样 I'll tell you what we'll do.
叫沃利爵士带上他的毒药赶紧滚蛋 Sir Wally can take his poison chemicals somewhere else!
我闺女还有3个月就生娃了 I've a daughter expecting a baby,
我可不想要个怪胎孙子 and my grandchild's not gonna be deformed
便宜那些意大利佬 for them bloody Eyeties'sake!
政府若把我们小民放在眼里 他们绝不会批准 If the Government cared about people, they'd never allow it!
化工集团称 丙醇的安全性报告 The BCC said a report on the safety of propanol
近期将由行政事务部发布 was due to be published shortly by Administrative Affairs.
And now abroad again...
这变性二恶英简直是炸药 This metadioxin is dynamite.
大臣 我保证它完全无害 It's totally harmless.
化学上无害 政治上有害 Only chemically, not politically.
它伤不了人 它能把我报销掉 It can't hurt anyone.
It could finish me off!
大臣 10号找您 Yes?
Minister, Number 10 on the phone.
是政治部 首相刚刚看了新闻 The political office, the PM's just seen the news.
你好 我是吉姆 Hello, Jim here!
对 我刚才也看了 Yes, I just saw that, too.
地方上有点困难 别太担心 We don't need to be too worried about a little local difficulty.
想想就业机会和出口利益 Not in view of the jobs and exports...
不 没那么多岗位 No, not many jobs.
90来个吧 我觉得 Ninety, I think.
你当然了 You do, do you?
对 好吧 Yes, well...
我也刚想这么说呢 对对 I was coming round to that viewpoint myself.
汉弗莱 Humphrey...
我突然想到一件事情 我看出来了 Something just struck me.
I noticed.
你看 这项计划的争议很大 There are arguments against this scheme.
对 但它可能损害 Minister, you've already agreed...
It could lead to a loss of...
...public confidence.
You mean votes?
不不 和选票无关 不用考虑它 Votes?
It's not the votes that are a consideration at all.
但是你看 这是公众的意愿 But you see, it's the public will.
我们提倡民主 This is a democracy...
人民并不同意 人民既愚昧又盲目 and the people don't like it.
They are ignorant and misguided.
汉弗莱 就是人民选出我的 It was the people who elected me!
大臣 事情在一周之后就能平息 In a week, the whole thing will have blown over,
一年之后 莫西塞德工厂将安全成功地运营着 and in a year's time, we'll have a safe and successful factory.
一周对政治算长的 汉弗莱 Aweek's a long time in politics.
一年对政府算短的 A year's a short time in Government.
你属于政府 我属于政治 现在首相很生气 You're in Government, I'm in politics and the PM is not pleased.
With the greatest respect...
Going to insult me again?
可以说您把政党置于国家之上 You're putting party before country.
Can't you think of a new clich?
大臣 "新鲜的陈词滥调"恐怕自相矛盾 Minister, a new clich?
could be said to be a contradiction in terms.
汉弗莱 你不懂 你的生活安稳有保障 Humphrey, you lead a sheltered life.
而我必须在政坛存活 我才不得罪首相 I intend to survive and I'm not crossing the PM.
Why must you be so concerned with climbing the greasy pole?
这很重要 我必须爬 The greasy pole is important.
I have to climb it.
因为有竿在那里 'Cause it's there!
请接泰晤士报的编辑 谢谢你 伯纳 The editor of the Times, please.
How come the Times knows about the report before I do?
有人泄漏出去 大臣 我也知道 There's been a leak.
I know that!
这是机密 我昨晚才拿到草案 Itwas "Confidential".
I only got a draft last night.
At least itwasn't "Restricted".
"内参"的话昨天就见报了 "Restricted" means itwas in the papers yesterday.
"机密"才拖到今天 "Confidential" means it won't be in the papers till today.
Who leaked this?
I'm sure he didn't, Minister.
He probably didn't.
可能是其他人 这些泄漏真是耻辱 It might have been someone else.
These leaks are a disgrace!
人民会以为是政客干的 本来也是这样 People think it's the politicians.
It has been known.
依我看 我们漏的远没有被漏的多 In my opinion, we're farmore leaked against than leaking.
"政治懦夫否决化工集团提案 明哲保身" "Political cowardice to reject the BCC proposal".
"哈克别无选择" "Hackerhas no choice".
Humphrey thinks he's got me committed!
这是非官方消息 漏的是草案 It's an unofficial leak of a draft report.
您无需负责 You're committed to nothing.
Does the report give you a way out?
顺便 大臣 沃利・麦克弗兰爵士要见您 SirWally McFarlane is waiting to see you.
好吧 不过他来也白来 All right.
But he's wasting his time.
沃利爵士 请进 谢谢您 早安 Come in, please, Sir Wally.
May I join you, Minister?
想来就来吧 请坐 谢谢 吉姆 Lf you like.
Thank you, Jim.
那么 谢谢 伯纳 Now...
对不起 Sorry about that.
我看报了 亨德森报告明确支持我们 I see from the press the Henderson Report comes clearly on ourside.
我也看见了 那研究组漏得像筛子 I've seen that, too.
That committee leaks like a sieve.
好了大臣 那新工厂就没阻力了 So there's no real case for refusing permission for the new plant.
我不太确定 听好 吉姆 I'm not sure yet.
Now look, Jim...
这合同花费我们两年心血 至关重要 We've been working on this for two years, it's very important.
我是董事长兼化学家 我告诉你 变性二恶英无毒 I'm the chairman, and I tell you as a chemist, metadioxin is safe.
You experts always think you're right.
The more inexpert you are, the more likely you are to be right?
大臣们不是专家 Ministers are not experts.
选他们就是因为他们无知 They're chosen because they know nothing.
You admit that?
对技术细节一无所知 Nothing about technical details.
大臣必须为国家大局着想 所以我还不确定 Ministers must take a broaderview, that's why I cannot commit yet.
听着 哈克 Look, Hacker!
你在犯错误 你心里清楚 This is the wrong decision and you know it.
懦弱 没骨气 It's cowardly and craven!
我不是懦夫 给我坐下 I am not cowardly...
You'll lose a few votes from a few people in those constituencies?
这是可悲 这是政治 It's pathetic!
It's politics!
没错 Exactly!
我要上报工业部长 I'll be writing to the Secretary of State for Industry.
你不批项目我就辞职 I am prepared to resign if you block this one!
How do you feel that went, Minister?
We'll have to get another chairman.
Get another?
没人想接手这份工作 Nobody would accept a job like that!
没人想管国营企业 这是自取灭亡 Nobody wants to be chairman of nationalised industry:
Instant ruin
最好上任当天就拿遣散费走人 早晚一样 They may as well accept the golden handshake the day they start.
总能找到一个 找个研究老年病的美国废物 We'll find someone.
Some useless American geriatric.
不见得 Not necessarily.
正经人谁敢接手工业部门 How do you expect to find a decent replacement,
如果他的前任为正确决策而被迫辞职 when we forced his predecessor to resign fortaking a sound decision,
which we blocked for political reasons?
又是这套 我别无选择啊 大臣可以随心所欲 I have no choice.
A Minister can do what he likes.
民主至上 It's the people's will.
我是他们的领头人 应该跟他们走 I am their leader.
I must follow them.
我良心清白 两手干净 My hands are clean.
我觉得一个人见竿就爬 I thought itwas rather difficult to keep one's hands clean
想两手干净也难 while climbing the greasy pole.
伯纳 得阻止沃利闹事 We must stop Wally making a fuss.
他会在记者招待会上骂我目光短浅 Press conferences accusing me of lack of faith.
Interviews on Panorama.
What am I to do?
如果我不批 泰晤士报和每日邮报会骂我政治懦夫 If I stop it, the Times will accuse me of political cowardice.
如果我批了 镜报和太阳报又会说我扼杀胎儿 If I let it, the Mirror will say I'm murdering unborn babies.
要是报告说变性二恶英不安全就好了 If only the report had any doubt about the safety of metadioxin.
目前是没有 Are you sure it doesn't, Minister?
Not as it stands.
是 Henderson's a Cambridge man?
Which college?
没事 就想看看是不是我的校友 Nothing.
Just wondered if it was my old college.
Weren't you at the LSE?
对对 没错 Yes, so I was.
有 报告里附了 Have you got his file?
It's with the report.
给我接剑桥大学 大臣 您应该知道 Got a Cambridge telephone...
You do realise,
当然您不是蓄意的 not that you have any such intention,
但您不应该干涉 but it would be most improper to influence
an independent report of this nature?
太不应该了 绝对的 Most improper!
Out of the question.
我只想去国王学院 会会老朋友 Just it might be nice to pop down to have tea with my old friend,
Crichton, Provost of King's.
Get him on the phone.
是 大臣 请接剑桥大学 Yes, Minister.
Get me King's College, Cambridge.
谁知道 没准亨德森教授也会去喝茶 Who knows?
Professor Henderson might drop in for tea.
That'd be a happy coincidence, wouldn't it?
Perfectly natural.
Nothing improper about that.
我也这么觉得 How can a coincidence be improper?
Myfeeling entirely.
请找克利顿院长 Lord Crichton, please.
How's the move from the Commons to the Lords?
像从动物界进了植物界 Like moving from animals to vegetables.
亨德森教授来了 谢谢 见到你太高兴了 Professor Henderson's here.
Good to see you.
来见见我的老朋友 吉姆・哈克 Come and meet an old friend, Jim Hacker.
吉姆 这位是亨德森教授 亨德森教授 Jim, this is Professor Henderson.
Professor Henderson!
真没想到 大臣也在这里 I didn't expect to see the Minister.
瞧这巧劲 是啊 真巧啊 What a coincidence!
Yes, what a coincidence!
第一次见面 You know each other?
We haven't met.
我在为他们部写报告 那真巧呢 I'm writing a report forhim.
Well, what a coincidence.
是啊 真巧 巧得不能再巧了 Yes, what a coincidence!
Extraordinary coincidence.
当然 非常满意 You're happy with my report?
Delighted.
你一定下了不少功夫 You must've worked very hard.
大部分都归功于华盛顿食品药物管理局 Most of it was done by Washington.
失陪 我去给我老婆倒杯茶 Excuse me, I'll go and help with the tea.
Tell me, have you everwritten a Government report before?
没有 你的名字会载入史册 No.
Yourname will be on it forever.
"亨德森报告" "Henderson Report".
有点不朽的意味 这我倒没想过 It's a kind of immortality.
I hadn't thought of it like that.
But if it were to go wrong...
如果变性二恶英没你说的那么安全 If this metadioxin isn't as safe as you say...
your career...
非常勇气可嘉 Very courageous!
各标准化测试都显示不存在致畸形毒素 None of the standard tests show evidence of teratogenic toxicity.
Standard tests?
你看 来时我在火车上记了些问题 Well, I was making a few notes on the train coming down.
尽管我不是生化学家 但似乎 I'm not a biochemist, but it would appear
美国报告中有些重要问题没解决 that the US report leaves some important questions unanswered.
有些证据说服力不强 有些结论被人质疑 Some evidence is inconclusive, some findings have been questioned,
the figures are open to interpretation,
长期深入研究或许会有不同发现 and different results might come from a more detailed study.
对对 可一旦报告有误 Obviously, but...
But if anything did go wrong,
就算十年后出了事 媒体头一个就找你的报告 a delayed effect, the press would go straight to your report.
比如 And if it turned out that you'd everdone...
为跨国药品公司做过研究 laboratory trials fora multi
-national drug company...
那都过去15年了 14年 Thatwas 15 years ago.
你也知道媒体的可怕 You know what the press is like.
空穴来风 那麻烦可不小 No smoke without a fire.
It could be a millstone!
一旦出差错 通俗杂志可要大放厥词 The popular press would be merciless, if anything went wrong:
"亨德森报告的牺牲品们辗转求死" "Death Agony of Henderson Report Victims".
I don't know what to do!
我不能篡改证据 它确实无毒 报告得承认 I can't alterthe evidence, the report says it's a safe drug.
确实 你没办法了 打扰二位一下 Quite.
I see you have no choice.
Stop talking shop.
经济学教授急着想与您交谈 是吗 Our Professor of Economics is dying to talk to you.
我原来写过不少 You're not worried about this report?
I've done lots of these
改结论就行 媒体只看那个 It's the phrasing of the conclusion, that's all the press everread.
how does it end?
我说 据已有证据 委员会没有理由拒绝该项目 "On existing evidence, there is no reason not to proceed".
好吧 这个结论只需要稍加润色 Well, it's just a question of a tidy bit of re
-drafting.
"尽管就现有证据 委员会" "While the committee feel there's no reason
"认为该项目可行" not to proceed on existing evidence,
"仍需强调 变种二恶英问世未久" it must be emphasised that metadioxin is a recent compound,
"不可贸然否认 若经长期研究" and itwould be irresponsible to deny, after further research,
"也许会发现该产品危害人体健康" its manufacture might be proved to be associated with health risks".
是 这结论能讲通 Yes, that seems perfectly fair.
Could you just say that again?
与其那样 不如我给你写下来吧 Better than that...
I'll jot it down for you.
行政事务部大臣 詹姆斯・哈克 The Minister for Administrative Affairs, James Hacker,
对外宣布他不会支持 has announced he'll not give approval
英国化工集团制造丙醇 for the BCC to make propanol.
亨德森报告虽认为该药物大体安全 The Henderson Committee, while generally approving the drug,
